---
3ip: 2
title: Threads: A p2p communication protocol
author: oed@3box.io
discussions-to: https://chat.3box.io
status: Draft
created: 2018-11-20
---

# Threads: A p2p communication protocol

# Overview

Threads is a feature that enables multiple users to post messages in a sequence. This allows users to communicate asynchronously in many forms. For example it could be used for comments, chats, status updates, etc. Threads uses the [orbitdb feed](https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db/blob/master/API.md#orbitdbfeednameaddress) to create a log of messages that is eventually consistent.

## Access control

Threads are allowed to have both moderators and members. In moderated threads, anyone can post, while anyone can remove their own posts and moderators can remove any post (besides other moderator's posts). Moderators can add other moderators. In member threads, only members can post and moderators have the same abilities as prior. Moderators in this case can add members to a thread.

## Thread creation

Threads are created inside of [Spaces](./3ip-1.md). A thread has a `name` which could be any string. For example the name could be the address of a contract if you want to create a thread for commenting on that contract. This essentially means that two different spaces could have their own threads with the same name. When a thread is created it gets the name `3box.thread.<space-name>.<thread-name>` for the orbitdb logstore. The main reason to keep threads separated by spaces is so that a dapp that only have permissions to space `A` should not be able to post in threads created in space `B`.

## API

All of the calls below assume that you have opened a space, for example:
```js
const space = box.openSpace('aGoodSpace')
```

**Join a thread:**
To join a thread simply call the `joinThread` method with the name of the thread to join.
```js
const thread = await space.joinThread(<name>)
```


**Post to a thread:**
To post in a thread the `post` method is used. It can be called with any Object. This post is appended to the end of the thread.
By posting in a thread they automatically subscribe to it if not already subscribed.
```js
await thread.post(<Object>)
```

**Subscribe to a thread:**
Saves the thread to the space with the key `"thread-<name>"`. Mostly this only needs to be called if you wish to subscribe to a thread that you have not posted to already.
```js
await space.subscribeThread(<name>)
```

**Read a thread:**
This function returns an array of posts made in the thread. It's also possible to pass options to limit the number of posts or what posts are return.

```js
const posts = thread.getPosts()
```

**Delete a thread post:**
Attempts to delete a post with given id. Deletion completes if the user has the capabilities in the access controller to do so.

```js
await deletePost(<id>)
```

**Add a moderator to a thread:**
Attempts to add a moderator to a thread. Returns id if sucessful, otherwise false.

```js
await addMod(<id>)
```

**Get moderator list:**
Returns list of moderators for a thread.

```js
const mods = await listMods()
```

**Add a member to a thread:**
Attempts to add a member to a thread. Returns id if sucessful, otherwise false. Throws if not member thread.

```js
await addMember(<id>)
```

**Get member list:**
Returns list of members for a thread. Throws if not member thread.

```js
const members = await listMembers()
```

**Watch for updates:**
When we receive an update to the thread from the network, the provided function will get called.
```js
thread.onNewPost(post => {})
```

**Unsubscribe from a thread**
Removes the thread from the list of threads that the user is subscribed to.
```js
await space.unsubscribeThread(<name>)
```

**List threads the user is subscribed to**
Lists all threads that the user has interacted with. Returns a list of objects that contains the name of the thread and if the thread is currently open (if the orbitdb store for it is open, and we are actively listening for updates).

```js
const threadNames = space.subscribedThreads()
console.log(threadNames)
> ["3box-chat", "Bounties-issue432"]
```



### Threads REST API
We will also add a rest api for viewing threads when the user doesn't have a space opened. This should be as simple as

```js
const threadData = await Box.getThread(<space-name>, <thread-name>)
```
